WASP Industry Days 2023: Building a sustainable future in a rapidly changing AI landscape
Welcome to the annual conference WASP Industry Days. A meeting place for industry and academic researchers within the WASP program.

WASP Industry Days 2023 takes its stance in the rapidly changing conditions for technology research and innovation. Join us to discuss and explore how to build successful collaborations between industry, academia, and societal actors.

Artificial intelligence, autonomous systems and software are key enabling technologies for a sustainable society; may it be securing energy efficiency on a societal scale, faster discovery of new drugs and new materials crucial for a sustainable transition or analyzing complex and huge amounts of climate data.

Typically, it takes several years transforming a finding from fundamental research to production. In the era of artificial intelligence this is old knowledge. The pace of development has never been faster than now, and this fact puts traditional forms of collaboration to its test.

At this event, we invite researchers and decision-makers from industry, academia and society to delve into strategies and tools to effectively adapt and cooperate amidst the rapid change.

WARA Robotics in the spotlight
WARA Robotics and its main industrial partner ABB is hosting WASP Industry Days 2023 focusing on “Building a sustainable future in a rapidly changing AI landscape”. ABB’s intelligent robotics solutions support businesses by increasing productivity, reducing waste and maximizing efficiency, contributing to a more sustainable world.

As a participant to the WASP Industry Days you will meet the core team and visit the WARA Robotics facility. WARA Robotics provides access to testbeds in an industrial setting, stimulates more relevant and new research questions, aid research visibility, and increases the practical relevance and impact of WASP research.

In addition, you will visit the ABB Robotics Experience Center. The 1,000 square meter demo, test and training center is located in Robotics’ headquarters on Finnslätten in Västerås and consists of more than 25 robots, both collaborative robots and traditional industrial robots. You can also experience manufacturing environments in a virtual reality in RobotStudio to understand how VR and digital twins can be helpful in, for example, virtual commissioning.

When and where?
Dates: November 6-7
Location: Västerås Congress

Accomodation and travels must be booked by each particpant individually.

Who can participate?
Companies and organizations with research activities in Sweden (with or without ongoing WASP collaboration), WASP researchers including postdocs, and WASP PhD students are welcome to participate in the WASP Industry Days.
